having already found a home on the Xbox
Live Arcade and PC supergiant games
stunning tidal Bastion has left from
almost nowhere on to the App Store and
in particular onto the iPad it's a
welcome surprise as it doesn't simply
demand players to stick with the control
system of the first two releases though
it is still available opting instead for
an intuitive semi-auto fire tap and drag
system instead the only question that
remains is does it still feel like
Bastion for those unfamiliar with the
title you play the role of the kid a
capable warrior adept in the use of
weapons ranging from hulking two-handed
hammers to mines grenades samurai swords
and akimbo pistols it's an eclectic
range but you'll appreciate the variety
as you encounter the mysterious floating
world's vicious inhabitants whether
you're fighting a gloop spewing scumbag
a fire spewing pit bull or the always
frustrating armored lunkheads you'll be
able to dodge hit shoot and maybe even
fire off a special attack or two to keep
ahead of the curve while you could play
the game using a virtualized version of
the original controls stick based
movement with an arrangement of buttons
dodge shoot and so on the iPad version
boasts its own smart control system tap
or double tap and you'll respectively
walk or dodge in that direction hold
down and drag and the kid will chase off
your finger in either case you'll start
attacking hostiles automatically as soon
as you're in range
this may sound cheap but as it is you'll
need to avoid attacks while positioning
yourself up for counter strikes and
power shots balancing things out
traveling through the world of Bastion
is a unique experience all on its own
as it forms itself from broken fragments
as you move about as you do so your
actions are narrated by the friendly
elder rocks giving the game an almost
storybook like feel as new areas are
constructed before your very eyes this
actually becomes a core aspect of the
game as you attempt to recreate the
world by collecting crystals granting
access to stores that invite
experimentation is changing the kids
weapon loadouts modifying passive boosts
free forging weapons for new effects and
even remembering the Fallen victims of
the calamity that surrounds you Bastion
for the iPad is a wonderful adaption of
an outstanding
action title and one that feels at home
on the App Store thanks to its control
modifications purists may balk at the
reduction of challenge but bastions
beauty is not in the difficulty but in
the unfolding of its delicate story one
skywalk at a time this has been Andrew
with apps by comm we review you decide